---
title: Projects of the Month
author: Jamalam360
coauthors:
image: ./assets/physics-toys.png
summary: >
  It's time to look at our editor-picked projects of the month! These are a small
  selection of our personal favourites that came out recently - this is by
  no means an exhaustive list, go look for yourself as well!
---

It's time to look at our editor-picked projects of the month! These are a small
selection of our personal favourites that came out recently - this is by no
means an exhaustive list, go look for yourself as well!

Do you know of any cool projects that you would like to be featured in next
month's issue? Let us know on Discord at
[https://mod-magazine.github.io/discord](https://mod-magazine.github.io/discord).

## [Cobblemon](https://modrinth.com/mod/cobblemon)

OK...so it didn't come out this month...or last month...or the month before
that. Cobblemon came out in October last year, but we wanted to give it a
mention since it has been gaining popularity recently.

![A Gyarados](./assets/cobblemon-gyarados.png)

Cobblemon is _the_ modern alternative to Pixelmon, and with its large team and
support for both Fabric and Forge, I can see it continuing to develop and gain
steam. It's open source and designed to integrate better with Minecraft than
previous PokÃ©mon mods.

![A Tauros](./assets/cobblemon-tauros.png)

The community around Cobblemon seems ever-growing, so I'm sure we will see
constant work and community contributions to the project. Unless Nintendo takes
a dislike to it, that is. Hopefully that won't happen, but if it does, I
wouldn't be surprised.

## [e4mc](https://modrinth.com/mod/e4mc)

e4mc _did_ come out this month, so we're off to a good start. This project is
interesting both technically and for regular players: it allows you to open a
LAN game to the whole wide world. That doesn't sound too special, until you
learn that only the host needs e4mc installed. Your friends can connect with a
vanilla client. Gone are the days of those terrible free server hosts. I wish.

When you open a game to LAN, the mod will automatically send you an IP in chat;
you can give it to your friends for them to be able to join your world like any
other server! On the backend, e4mc uses a websocket server implemented in Rust,
which automatically makes it blazingly fast and better than every other piece of
software ever created (I use Rust btw).

## [Species](https://modrinth.com/mod/species)

Species is a mod that adds more mobs, a mob mod if you will - say that as fast
as you can 10 times. It is being developed by a large team who plan to release
updates each with a specific theme. I wish more mods did this - it creates a
really nice community and feel.

![The creatures in Species, as of the first update](./assets/species-creatures.png)

Documentation is still a work in progress, but my personal favourites are the
Birt and Limpet. The Birt is so cute and reminds me of Flappy Bird, while the
Limpet is just goofy. Look at those silly eyes!

![A Birt!](./assets/species-birt.png)

I'm excited to see what comes next for Species. Hopefully it will involve more
silly-eyed creatures.

![A silly little Limpet](./assets/species-limpet.png)

## [Physics Toys](https://modrinth.com/mod/physics-toys)

This one is seriously cool. Physics Toys lets you play with physics entirely
server-side (you could even use e4mc to set up a testing game for your friends).
I'm not sure what Patbox does to the server to make it do these things, but I do
know that it's awesome. A picture is worth more than 1000 words:

![A pillager outpost being exploded](./assets/physics-toys.png)

All this madness is powered by Rayon (a well known physics library), a lot of
packets, and the new display entities added in a recent snapshot.

These new entities come in 3 variants: block, item, and text. It'll be exciting
to see what datapack-ers, mod creators, and server-side modders will do with
these new tools in the coming months.

I, for one, cannot wait to see what the resident server wizard does next - I
hear a tech mod is on the horizon at some point.

## [Aged](https://modrinth.com/modpack/aged)

Aged is a modpack revolving around medieval times, with mods added for realism -
both water and temperature are factors to look out for if you want to survive.

![A player keeping warm by the campfire](./assets/aged-campfire.png)

Food can spoil, you can freeze to death, you need to purify water to drink - the
list is never ending if you want to achieve basic survival in Aged, but that
sort of thing appeals to many players.

![The heat here will hurt you](./assets/aged-nether.png)

If you decide to play Aged, you will be subject to all 4 seasons of the
Minecraft world. In addition, you will able to earn XP points to level up
alongside the monsters in the world, who will also get stronger with time. You
will also be able to simulate the hardest survival challenge of them all: a job.

![A harsh winter](./assets/aged-winter.png)

Aged also has an official multiplayer server, for those of you who want to
freeze to death with the power of friendship by your side. I think Aged might be
my choice next time I want to play Minecraft - it seems well crafted and
polished.

## [Entity Model Features](https://modrinth.com/mod/entity-model-features)

Entity Model Features is a multiloader mod available for Fabric, Quilt, and
Forge that adds support for Optifine's custom entity model (CEM) format, which
allows resource packs to modify entity models.

![That's not a normal pig...](./assets/entity-model-features-pig.png)

EMF is only in beta at the moment, and many resource packs won't work, but in my
opinion we're well on the way to Optifine being phased out for better
alternatives.

![Fresh Animations runs on Entity Model Features](./assets/entity-model-features-fresh-animations.png)

## [FTB Skies](https://www.feed-the-beast.com/modpacks/103-ftb-skies)

Feed the Beast make a _lot_ of modpacks, but their latest offering seems like
one which will be used and remembered for a while. Much like SkyFactory, players
of Skies will spawn on a floating island with limited resources and plenty of
challenges.

![A huge airship](./assets/ftb-skies-airship.png)

Skies includes the staple mods: Mekanism, Botania, RF Tools, and Create -
amongst many others. It also includes a Feed the Beast exclusivee in-game event
system to surprise (or terrify) you with new experiences.

> With a perfect blend of magic and technology, quests, and custom events, the
> experience is unforgettable. _- FTB Team_

![A collage of FTB Skies experiences](./assets/ftb-skies-collage.png)

## [Power Networks](https://modrinth.com/mod/power-networks)

Power Networks is another example of server-side magic. It adds coils and wires
that can be used to build energy networks, all server-side.

![Power Networks allows you to create coils and wires](./assets/power-networks.png)

## [VECTOR](https://modrinth.com/shader/vector)

VECTOR! A shader that describes itself as a way to pretend like it's the 1980s.
Fire up the old IBM or Apple II, it's gamin' time!

Here's a screenshot without Vector enabled:

![Without Vector](./assets/VECTOR-normal.png)

And the same scene with Vector:

![With Vector](./assets/VECTOR-vector.png)

You just got vector-ed. Ohhhhhhhh yeahhhh!!! Are Despicable Me references still
cool?

## [Regions Unexplored](https://modrinth.com/mod/regions-unexplored)

![Redwood trees by the river](./assets/regions-unexplored-1.png)

Adding extra biomes to your Minecraft world is one of the best ways to enhance
your experience. Lets face it: no matter how sandbox-ey a game is, there's
always potential for new content to spice it up. Regions Unexplored is a new
multiloader mod that adds over 70 new biomes.

![A collage of biomes from Regions Unexplored](./assets/regions-unexplored-2.png)

---

These projects were picked solely by me, Jamalam. We want to expand our reach
for next time; do you have suggestions for projects to be featured in the next
issue? Contact us on Discord at
[https://mod-magazine.github.io/discord](https://mod-magazine.github.io/discord).
